foreign
[Music]
welcome to the art of accomplishment
where we explore how deepening
connection with ourselves and others
leads to creating the life we want with
enjoyment and ease in our last episode
we began by exploring Joe's childhood
and family life we now continue with the
second half of that conversation getting
into how Joe encountered many of the
concepts and tools we talk about in the
podcast and incorporate into the courses
please enjoy
[Music]
so how did how did your relationship to
that sort of that hero and hip moment of
those eight seconds of Oneness
shift over over all this period of time
like I'm hearing you now describe that
you got into all this work and you did
like often process and everything you
could find just seeing what tools worked
for people and trying them
but what what was what was your
relationship to the to the goal or
goallessness of your search and how was
that shifting
yeah so there was like so my mind it was
like
there was
there was I the main Drive was I'm not
good enough and if I'm awake if I'm
awake like that I'll be good enough all
the time like that was kind of the
thought process and and so
my a lot of my work center and because I
was very head driven I have a lot of my
work centered on
Awakening through like non-dual
meditation and so I'd say half of it was
really deeply in that was deeply
entrenched in that and so
it started what it just did was it filed
down the fight in me over time the more
I meditated the less I was fighting with
myself
and so it went from like I have to do
this and I'm not good enough to
and and in that a more big experience
has happened and then I stopped chasing
them as much and they were just like
this you know they would have they would
occur
and
and I would do this emotional work kind
of on the side and
and so my relationship it just became
it's it still was like it was deeply
important like I somewhere early on and
like the first year to this the thought
occurred to me like what am I and I
would ask that question
some version of that question [__] 10
20 times a day for [__] it was like six
or seven years you know or five years at
least six years probably and it was just
like I would ask that question all the
time
like I was constantly
you know and I was like settling my
nervous system from this place of my of
I'm not safe which is you know what I
learned as a child
and so that was
happening and and that never that never
particularly quit and but I it just
became the search became less and less
compulsive
but it was always there and then I had a
Meditation Retreat where I can't even
remember how old I was
but um it was in my 30 I think 37 to 38
or something like that I had I was at a
Meditation Retreat
and I was in the in the bathroom and I
this is that place that I really
hesitate to talk about
um but I I was
I was peeing and I and I immediately
and I immediately had the this thought
that said oh I'm like the answer to I am
was answered it wasn't answered in a
the thought was I'm bat
but that this [__] nonsensical it was
just a recognition that that place that
I had touched all those years ago was
what I was and there was just like there
was no doubt in it
and then the second part thing that
happened immediately after that was
um
was and this never ends that the
evolution the thought was this the
evolution never ends and
and that's where I think all that work
for those eight years was paid off so
well was because I've seen people get
stuck for 10 years thinking that they're
at an end and they're just they're just
another form of avoidance and
self-definition so
I was very lucky that way and then then
the relationship changed even more so at
that point I didn't even know what the
[__] I was like another big experience
who gives a [__] I'm still in this thing
and it was like three months later I
noticed I'm like wow the voice in the
head is kind of gone like I didn't even
notice like the critical negative voice
in the head was mostly gone that the
that
the fight was mostly gone that the the
editor the one that was telling me about
my experience was gone
um
I hardly noticed it and
and then I was with case at some point
and you know he was talking about his
Awakening and I was like oh you know I
was searching that for a long time and
then recognized oh [__] that actually
happened to me and I just started
laughing I just started laughing
hysterically and
and that was like the recognition that
the Awakening that I had looked for had
happened in my heart and I didn't even
notice it and which is really a strange
thing
and then I started to Define Myself by
it as case did actually and then there
was like this whole world of people that
opened up that were
in that thing of like oh we are people
who are have had this Awakening
experience or you know and which is in
itself ridiculous and so so I there's a
time when I defined myself in that and
that
I identified with it even though it was
very subtle maybe even in some ways very
subtly put myself above people in it
and then
um just very slowly very slowly over
time not just
I was like the whole idea of Awakening
or all of it just became very
unimportant to me like that it's like
it's like
so like it's like hair color you know so
so
what's in you know and and it is
important I understand that like because
my my system works that way like there's
a lot more ease in my system there's
like a
like my emotional fluidity was easier
for me to capture
because I didn't have the story there's
a lot of benefit to it and
like
and it's like to me it's just natural it
happens to everybody if you if you just
keep evolving it's gonna happen it
doesn't [__] matter and it doesn't
make you special or better different
and so that's that's that's the way it
sits now now it's like background I
don't even notice but if I end up if I'm
ever asked I can there's no place
there's no time when I don't feel like
I'm part of that
there's a lot of really interesting
jumping off points here one is that you
mentioned that you know you you develop
the identity of the awakened one or
something and then
you were putting yourself above people
I'm curious to what extent is it
possible to be experiencing that Oneness
and put yourself above people was it
were you dropping out of that
in these moments when you were doing
that or was it was is it possible to
hold both in the same impossible to hold
I mean
I am sure that there's going to be some
Buddha somewhere
that's gonna you know be able to say
exactly what that phase of it was and
I've read some of that and can identify
like as moving through those phases
um but absolutely I find I remember uh
getting a whole bunch of people who
taught Awakening together and saw I saw
it all over the place
so I think that you know there's healed
and unhealed in every aspect of every
part of our evolutionary cycle there's
still
dysregulation and regulation there's
still balance and imbalance there's not
like there it's an illusion that there's
like some sort of amazing
Eternal balance that forever happens
that's just like that that wouldn't be
described as balance balance is the
thing that you know is a thing that
you're always getting back to but you're
never you know yeah yeah so so yeah
absolutely possible and at some place
deeper there's a deeper place that where
there's another thing that happens where
it's like I I thinking that I'm better
than somebody at this point is
I like it's hard to conceive of I would
imagine it's possible but like it's hard
to conceive of that that's a possibility
but I also wouldn't identify as awake so
that's strange
like I wouldn't identify generally
as anything including awake
so that there's something else about
that but also my mind was very
interested in all these like okay this
stage and then this stage and I remember
reading about human development and
there's a psychological literature on
these kinds of levels of Awakening and
like Terio Fallen stuff is really good
on this and then then there's the you
know different forms of Buddhism and
Hindu that talk about the stages of
Awakening and I was really interested in
it where am I and like all of that just
has also dived out
like I could give a [__]
about any of that stuff
yeah that's something that's always been
curious for like others have asked me
this question because I'm close to you
and I haven't I've had my own thoughts
on an answer but I don't know your
answer so that's why I'm gonna ask you
this question now but you know you you
credit like the eight years of
meditation largely for a lot of what
this what this experience has been for
you and yet in courses there's like only
only in like the most recent in-person
course was they're actually meditation
as meditation for 10 minutes and the
instruction was don't manage and so but
and yet doing doing all this work I find
myself having
I've had a number of experiences that
fit a lot of the descriptors of what
you've said where after I've had an
emotional movement or after I've had
somebody else hold roles for me in a
group yeah and just experience different
aspects of myself just there's a
experience where I pop out of whatever
pattern
of self I've identified with an
experience of vastness much larger than
that and so and and my path doing it
through this work and not really being
very focused on meditation that I've
done a whole lot of meditation and like
headspace apps years ago yeah it's
interesting that it's like for me it
seems like it hasn't been necessary to
meditate to that place it's been more
important just to do the
self-exploration whatever that whatever
format takes with whatever comes up
yeah then to follow any particular
so yeah I I think there's just a
dissolution of self and there's lots of
ways to dissolve the self and so and and
our nature the nature of humans is to
move from a very tight sense of self
like as a little kid you're like I am
this and everybody else is also this
like what do you want for what do you
want for Christmas I want GI Joe for a
Kung Fu Grip what does Mom want for
Christmas they want GI Joe with the Kung
Fu group like and then naturally that
sense of eye expands
and it expands to my family and to my
team my Society my Humanity the whole
ecosystem the universe and so that's
like that's our nature to develop and to
open our sense of self
and in that opening of the sense of self
all the ways that we Define ourselves
have to go away or or it can't reach
everything it can't be to all and so
um held emotions create a very deep
sense of self
um
uh not the critical voice in the head
sees a very deep creates a very deep
sense of self
um seeing yourself as separate from a
group or seeing yourself as the group
like those things like start messing
with the sense of self so the what I'm
doing in the work and the tools are all
very subtly pointing to a dissolution of
self
and I think meditation is one really
great way to do it it has its pluses and
minuses and then there's a whole bunch
of others and but one of the things
that's constantly like if you look at
like
groundbreakers one is all about the
critical voice in the head and in that
critical voice in the head we're asking
we'll start asking the question well is
it who's you if you're not the critical
voice in your head who is who's the
critical voice in your head talking to
that's part of the exploration
and that there's another week long we
have coming about on rolls and that's
also like oh if you're dropping your
roles and who are you so there it's it's
in everything we do and so
and I know plenty of people who've had
Awakening experiences without without
any meditation and so
and
I love meditation so there's just a ton
of tools I think
the thing about meditation that
the reason I think I'm I the reason I
know that that's not my calling to teach
is one there's plenty of really great
people teaching it but two you can
really sit in a defined sense of self
and meditation and a pillow because
you're not bucking up against the world
and and so our stuff is very relational
because
you're gonna like you can't fool
yourself when you're in a relationship
like that you you can't or it's a lot
harder or in business
or in a marriage it's easy to do it when
you're just sitting there by yourself on
a pillow and so our stuff is that and
it's also where humanity is today
you know we're not Farmers where we're
sitting quietly on a field a lot we're
constantly moving and so
I mean endless people have told me that
view
vulnerability and partiality empathy and
wonder it is you know when they're in
that with somebody they feel like
they're meditating in a conversation
and so that it's all pointing to the
same thing but yeah so and it's
consciously well I mean it's designed
that way our tools are designed to do
that and we've had
that I know about at least 100 people
who have had you know a deep Awakening
experiences in our work
yeah I liked what you had alluded to a
little bit earlier of like this just
happens naturally and I've I've spoken
now to a lot of people who
just at some point in their lives
something happened meeting the
description of what people describe as
Awakening and one way that I've come to
see it is just that like over time we
build we build these models for
ourselves and for reality and the way
things are and eventually more
information accumulates in our system
that eventually overwhelms that model
and then it crumbles and in those
moments when it crumbles there's just
this expansion and then a new model
could form it was like you know like it
happens a lot of people describe this
having happened a lot to them as
children like early on in neurological
development yeah and then maybe less so
later in life unless they're doing a lot
of this sort of work
yeah but I like seeing this as just sort
of a this is a natural state and the the
framing of view the thing that's really
landed for me in this work and attracted
me to it from the start was that
recognizing that the the way of being
that you've pointed to in view is
something that I actually recognized as
present throughout my life when I was
authentically when I was most authentic
and those were the times when things
were really most flowing for me yeah and
so it's just like back propagating that
and recognizing that yeah there's not a
there's not a new there there there's a
it's just seeing through the technical
debt of my
awareness and Consciousness and
intellect to to get to what is actually
much more natural or just what I mean I
guess everything is natural but yeah to
get to the more of a default state
yeah the other thing about teaching in
this way is really useful to me anyways
and for the people that I noticed that
it happens to you is it it's not
something like oh we're seeking after
this and then we find it and then
somehow like that whole illusion is gone
what happens instead is
like some people don't even notice it
there's no definition of it some people
never like there's there's tons of
people who had no idea that this was a
POS who've worked with us who like no
idea that there's a possibility they're
not trying for it that's not what
they're here for they're here because
they want to communicate with their
husband better or their wife better or
they they're here and then this thing
happens and it's like yeah whatever that
thing was and I I feel like that's like
a far more natural way
to that it moves and and it feels like a
healthier more integrative approach
rather than
rather than like here's just one aspect
of development that I'm gonna go after
yeah but that's that's the that's the
other thing it just feels like it's a
it's more integrated and healthier
when it when it's not the way that it
happened to me
you know struggling for it
yeah so one thing I'm noticing this is
the first time on the podcast that we've
really even touched this topic because
uh yeah I guess I could ask you why that
is yeah yeah
I I the same reason as I'm talking about
I think it's uh it was a
it's distracting and there's plenty of
people who teach it really well I mean
they're
I mean the name of the teachers that I
went to or read from there's just so
many of them and so I don't think
there's any need for another of that I
think it's a saturated Market to speak
business about it
but it's also just like
that knowledge is there and has been
there for
eons so that's one of the reasons it's
another reason is just it it
to me it's a bit of a distraction from
the whole Humanity that's available
um
two I just like the amount of joy that
comes from like the heart
the heart opening and Awakening part of
it also is just it just it tickles me
more and so
I like being in that
reality
I I don't know just drawn to it that's
the thing I just didn't and I and what I
noticed was in the early times of
teaching when I would talk about this
stuff it was distracting it didn't it
didn't to talk about it and to talk
about my work in the Awakening of it or
or about the Awakening
it just didn't seem to serve anybody
and it was the same thing like there's a
way if you've seen the rapid fire
coaching unit as you have that there's a
way that I could just sit down with
somebody and bring them into that like
space that I hit
and I can I there's this thing that I
could do and I would do it and people
would be like woohoo but I stopped doing
it because it didn't feel like that was
serving anybody it felt like that was
you know it was like the same kind of
candy experience that I had rather than
the integrative whole heartfelt body
yeah embodied situation so I just
stopped doing it yeah I think a lot of
that can relate to sort of for example
exploring psychedelics you can have
you can have this big experience that is
it's a lot of those notes and
it doesn't mean that you're gonna be
able to bring that back into your life
and it's not going to necessarily bring
you additional seeing or uh you know
capacity unless you really integrate all
the stuff that was between you and that
place to begin with so I I guess like
what what
what has been interesting to me about
this work is I came here
you know with a business question with
like the problem that was in front of me
was I want to see this narrow problem
more clearly
yeah which is the same thing it's
basically Awakening on a small scale of
so clearly there's something going on
here where there's some amount of not
seeing or some amount of Illusion and
how do I see through that illusion to
see just a little bit more of direct
reality whatever that might be or just
include a little bit more of my innate
processing capacity
and that's I think what
everybody wants somewhere in their life
whether it's a relationship or a
business or
or some sort of Spiritual Awakening or
salvation or whatever it is it's like I
want something that I don't currently
have
um or feel that I don't currently have
yeah and starting starting from there so
it's like I'm having a challenge with my
partner great what's the challenge what
like
yes what are the emotions holding the
pattern in place and when that starts to
move then more seeing occurs and that is
the process and it doesn't have to be
distracted by
at the end of this road there's an end
of the road to begin with and you're
somewhere on it and now you're measured
and there's certain steps to get it
right that you could intellectually
learn and trap yourself in yes there's
just a
that's right where are you right now and
what's the next step
yeah and I want to be clear that there's
a way that something like somebody can
be listening to this and think oh
psychedelics we're speaking poorly about
psychedelics or about direct non-dual
teaching or about salvation or any of
that like I honor all of it there's
nothing
I mean all of it has its shortcomings
you know there's
Cults and all of it there's you know
there's backwaters in all of it there's
backwaters and
and it's like I just want to make sure
if anybody's listening that
like explore the path you're you feel
called to explore don't don't take any
of this as judgment
but and and for where I'm called it's
definitely not creating a false sense of
end that people run towards
and then think that they're done
it's like no it's just we just keep on
dancing we just keep on evolving we just
learn to enjoy more and more and more we
become
Kinder more loving more compassionate to
ourselves and others
and there's really no end to that hope
hopefully there's no end to that you
know
something I've come to appreciate is
that whatever path I'm on whatever story
I'm in whatever whatever I think I need
in the moment
following through on a exploring that
path
and just being as aware as I'm capable
of being is what gets me the farthest
not deciding which path I'm on or if
it's the best path or yeah yeah yeah
though that itself that part is also
part of the path like what should I do
you know right yeah yeah
lovely put yeah and so
God knows I walk so many I've done so
much different kinds of work you know
and and I really
I love it when when I see folks in our
you know in our workshops talking about
different kinds of work and how they
interact with each other and
you know I think it's just such an
important part of it and and I think
that's part of like the way my
upbringing
like I was lucky in the fact that I
think now it's more
you see like with the internet there's
so many ways to get but I was born and
raised without the internet so there
wasn't like oh here's the 20 different
modalities and so that especially for
the my peers there was it was definitely
kind of a
this is the way this is the way this is
the way and one of the things that I
really appreciate about Society now
especially with the folks that I'm we're
like nobody
nobody's like Joe's way is the way like
that is like it doesn't happen which is
such a [__] relief right there's
because that's so limiting and and so I
just love the fact that today in our
society I remember the first Meditation
Retreat I went to they were just like
you know pick your path but once you
pick a commit to it whether it's this
one or another one
and I do agree that there are some
things that are really important to
commit to I think picking some some of
the past to commit to and like keep them
you know I think is is very useful
and
like there's so much wisdom everywhere
and so many have I can sweep some
corners and some can't sweep those same
corners and some everyone has their
limitations so I'm just really grateful
in today's world that I don't come
across anybody who thinks
like this is the way and I think that's
part of it too is that one of the other
reasons I don't like an end State like
there's an Awakening and then you're
done
it doesn't work is because that like
propagates the idea of a religious or
like a a way there's a state and then
there's a way and there's a teaching and
it's just like all of that just feels
like
yeah it doesn't doesn't feel helpful
yeah and then everything that you might
experience that feels like an Awakening
might just be a pre
lude to another experience exactly yeah
it's all an evolution every Epiphany is
here is a future rut mm-hmm
awesome
well this has been lovely I love doing
this longer format conversation and just
kind of getting more into the
into the details yeah and I loved
hearing more about your your history and
your childhood
yeah yeah I and I've I know I've said at
the beginning and
I am
you know that it was I think that
there's this thing that I want to say
which is like with the if you've
listened to this whole thing
and maybe we'll make it into Parts but
if you've listened to the whole thing
like
there's this time when it's really
important to believe in your parents and
then there's a time where it's really
important to get angry and realize that
your parents are fallible and that they
[__] you up and then there's this time
to really it's really important to like
have a forgiveness and a gratitude and
then there's this like thing that
happens it's just natural which is like
this deep gratitude
and
and I just want to say that about my
folks like
how much gratitude I have for them
and and how much they they push the ball
forward that allowed me to be here
and also
I just think it's really important
to respect their work and to respect
what they've given me it's important to
be very it was important to me be very
honest about it but it doesn't it
doesn't
in any way say that I don't love or
respect or I'm grateful for them
[Music]
thank you yeah
I enjoyed this yeah
and thank you everybody for listening
uh we'd love to hear from you on this uh
if you have any further questions maybe
we'll do some follow-up episodes I'd
also love to do one on my history if you
have any questions about that please
send them we've got some interesting
stories to figure out what to tell and
uh figure out interesting
find us on Twitter at Art of a comp or
check us out at art of
accomplishment.com
have a good one Brett good to see you
you too
[Music]